Please turn with me to 2 Samuel, chapter 12, verses 13 to 25.
You can also follow along on page 7 of your bulletin.
Then David said to Nathan, I have sinned against the Lord.
Nathan replied, the Lord has taken away your sin.
You are not going to die.
But because by doing this you have made the enemies of the Lord show utter contempt, the
Son born to you will die.
After Nathan had gone home, the Lord struck the child that your eyes wife had born
to David, and he became ill.
David pleaded with God for the child.
He fasted and went into his house and spent the nights lying on the ground.
The elders of his house holds to decide him to get him up from the ground, but he refused
and he would not eat any food with them.
Until the 7th day the child died.
David's servants were afraid to tell him that the child was dead for they thought, while
the child was still living, we spoke to David, but he would not listen to us.
How can we tell him the child is dead?
He may do something desperate.
David noticed that his servants were whispering among themselves and he realized the
child was dead.
Is the child dead?
He asked.
Yes, they replied.
He is dead.
Then David got up from the ground.
After he had washed, put on locians and changed his clothes, he went into the house of
the Lord and worshiped.
Then he went to his own house, and at his request they served him food and he ate.
His servants asked him, why are you acting this way?
While the child was alive, you fasted and wept, but now that the child is dead, you
get up and eat.
He answered, while the child was still alive, I fasted and wept.
I thought, who knows, the Lord may be gracious to me and let the child live.
But now that he is dead, why should I fast?
Can I bring him back again?
I will go to him, but he will not return to me.
Then David comforted his wife, Bathsheba, and he went to her and lay with her.
She gave birth to a son and the named him Solomon.
The Lord loved him and because the Lord loved him, he sent word through Nathan the prophet
to name him Jada Dayo.
This is the word of the Lord.
If you are new or visiting, we have been looking at passages in the Old Testament that demonstrate
how God works through brokenness to bring about salvation.
And how he works in that to build character, it is kind of like a mini-themed among
this overarching thing that we have had about the Old Testament.
But I got to tell you passages like todays is really, really, really difficult.
You see, David, David was a man after God's own heart, but in 2 Samuel 11, his life
just completely blows up.
And it takes his friend, a good friend, Nathan, to come to him and wake him up out of
this self-deception, out of his lies and manipulation and just he's trapped himself in his
sin.
That's verse 13.
And then in verse 14 he says, because of this, because you disregard God's law and because
you disregard it essentially God's heart, you broke his heart.
That son that was born through this adultery will die.
This is a really, really difficult passage.
Why?
One, theologically, I mean, you got to wrap your arms around his, why does God do this?
Why would God do such a thing?
I mean, Nathan said, God have forgiven him, then why this type of suffering, that reaches
so deep.
It feels like it's tearing his heart apart.
Secondly, I mean, it's really personal.
My own wife and I, we've been through four miscarriages.
And anyone here, I mean, I know there are a lot of people here, if you're married, if
you've been trying to have children and you understand, every one of those, we lost
a total of about seven children.
All of them were hard.
I mean, I'm talking on the floor in your bed.
I can't move difficulty.
Each one of them painful.
When Angela was pregnant with my son David, at that point, we had pretty much given up
having children.
And if anything while my sister, I mean, we love children.
I ran a camp for children and for youth for decades.
And so that was really my only touch point with ministry in an active way.
And when Angela was pregnant with David, it was really hard for me personally to get really
excited about it.
So week after week, I was like, this is going to be the week when the shoe drops.
And I just assumed my wife would be like, we just passed the first trimester while we
lost a kid after that one time.
And so it was just really hard for me to engage there personally.
And I struggled with that because every week I was just kind of waiting.
And you do this for 10 months.
It shapes you, you see.
And in a David, we named him David because he was the eighth child.
The actual King David was the eighth child.
And he was born through a weakness.
And in weakness.
And we said, well, that's what we're going to name him when we were.
It was born.
Thirdly, I know that because of this, we had a ton of people around us during this
time.
And but I know that there are women in this room who haven't had a lot of people around
them.
And they are suffering silently.
I know there are people in this room.
It doesn't even have to be in this context.
You're just in a lot of suffering.
You've suffered something.
It could be something I'm talking real trauma.
Right.
And you've done it silently.
So passages like this are really, really difficult to preach.
And yet they're in the Bible.
You can't overlook it.
How do you develop poise, a poise to confront the most painful moments of your life?
How do you develop the poise to process even the most painful moments in your life without
turning bitter, without despairing?
I mean, for David and for us, we're going to see three things then today.
I mean, I can't do justice to the feelings and the suffering that actually takes place in
this passage.
But I can pull out three lessons about suffering.
What it is.
How you respond to it and how do you actually recover?
That's what we're going to look at today.
First, what is suffering?
First, 15.
It says that the Lord struck the child at your eyes of why you've had born to David and
he became ill.
And verse 16 is a David's pleading with God and he's fasting and he's praying and he's
spent nights on the ground.
Verse 17, the elders of that household, they stood beside David to get him up from the
ground.
But he refused to eat, he would need any food with them.
Why?
Well, why was he on the ground?
One of the reasons is because this is a posture of prayer.
It's a posture of humility.
A lot of near-eastern and ancient cultures, as well as eastern cultures, the lower you
bowel, for instance, show them demonstrates a level of respect.
They say, David is on the ground.
So here's a humble posture here.
There was a prayer posture.
But notice the elders, they're trying to get him up.
They were certainly not trying to get David to stop praying.
So why?
Why was he on the ground?
It's because he was crushed.
He was just so defeated, crushed on the ground, on the floor, arriving around, wrestling
with God.
David in a sense is saying, I'm the one who deserves to die here.
I mean, if my son dies, I'm dead.
I'm as good as dead parents, you know.
When you're child-a-sick, you've been through this a million times over 10, 15 years, 20
years.
And some of your children may have suffered, I mean, some big, serious illnesses.
You know, if you could do anything to take that illness away from that child, if you could
take it on yourself, you would.
This is David saying, this child is infant child is suffering and dying.
And he's saying, on the one who deserves to die, I should be there.
Sometimes, that's suffering, that pain, that grief is so great.
It crushes you.
And when you lose somebody, we'd rather take their place.
We say.
I mean, you're a love for that person.
So we can't stand.
He can't move.
That's where David is.
Look, in Western cultures, death is like a sobering experience.
You stand around.
And as you've ever been to a funeral and they're lowering the casket into the ground, there
is crying.
There may be some weeping.
If you go to a viewing, there's some weeping, there's some crying.
But we're taught in Western cultures to internalize that pain.
We're taught to be strong, to hold your posture, hold your poise.
In the eastern culture, in the near eastern culture, in the ancient culture, you have to
hold people back from jumping and throwing themselves onto a funeral pire.
And that's David.
But then this is David.
He's the chosen king.
This is the man after God's own heart.
And it happened to him.
Where's his passage teach you?
A couple things.
One, because we're sinners.
Because of sin in general, it's just broken the world.
If you don't die young, at some point in your life, you are going to suffer.
You're going to experience on the ground, on the floor, rising in pain, suffering.
You're going to at some point in life.
So let me, I mean, if it happened to David in a sense, and David was the king.
He was the chosen king.
He was a man after God's own heart.
If it can happen to him, and God's God is eyes on David, it can happen to you.
So let me speak to you, like a father, like a father, one of the older people here in this
room, because of sin in general.
Because of the curse of sin, because the brokenness that comes from sin, life is designed
to crush you, life is defined, designed to test every foundation that you think you're standing
on as solid ground.
That means you're going to lose people that you love.
I mean, the finality of it, for good, at the least that's what's going to happen in your
life.
Some of you lost people.
I lost a father at five.
There are people who've lost their parents.
You understand?
That's true.
I mean, you cannot expect it.
Even if you're expecting, it's like a shock.
It's just kind of, it punches you in the face, and then kind of eases you into just a world
of chaos for, I don't know, how many years.
So some of us are going to lose people that we love.
David, I mean, this is the chosen king.
He's on the ground, because Beth doesn't care who he is.
Life doesn't care who he is, right?
Life doesn't, life is designed to crush who he is.
But then, all of a sudden, he gets up.
He gets up.
His servants are amazed and they're confused.
I mean, when he was alive, you were riding around on the floor.
You were wrestling on the ground.
But why do you get up?
God is giving us today an amazing resource to show us.
On one hand, we're all sinners, and we live in a broken world that has just been devastated
by sin in general.
And so because of sin, we're all sufferers.
We're all sufferers, but on the other hand, it's actually possible.
There's a resource here in this text that shows us it's possible to get up.
Now, what depends on what you do.
It depends on what you're doing when you're down there on the ground, on the floor.
So, how do you respond?
That's the second point.
How do you respond in suffering?
There are three things that David grasped when he was on the ground.
And because he grasped these things, he was able to get up.
He was actually able to find strength again and recover.
First, he learned.
This is really important.
He learned that his suffering is not a punishment.
It's not a reaction for his sins.
There are times when we suffer as a direct result of our sins.
Don't get me wrong.
There are times when there are things that happen because essentially, it's not like you
asked for.
Not that kind of stuff.
I'm saying that there are things that happen as a direct result, right?
For instance, you steal, you get caught, you go to jail.
That's a direct reaction.
That's not the kind of suffering we're talking about here.
David here learned that his suffering is not a punishment for a sins.
David had an affair with Uriah's wife.
That's one of his best friends.
And he gets her pregnant.
In order to come out clean, what does he do?
He arranges to have that friend of his murdered in battle, killed in battle, along
with other people.
And it looked like he got away with it.
But God saw all of it.
He sends Nathan, Nathan's a prophet to confront David and David repent.
Last week, if you were here last week, we looked at David's prayer, his Psalm, of repentance
after this particular narrative.
And verse 13, which we read today, it pretty much sums up that Psalm, Psalm 51.
I've sinned against the Lord.
Meanwhile, Bathsheba, she's pregnant.
He takes her in as his wife.
She has a child that's David's child.
It was this infant that was struck by God.
That's what the text says.
Now, when you read this cursory, when you read this superficially, you may conclude,
well, this is God seeking justice for what he's done.
This is God seeking punishment, justice for David.
And we say, well, there it is.
I knew it, Metro is no different from any other church that fire and brinstone, God
of the Bible, who's always angry, always cruel.
It's why I can't believe in a God like this.
Look, you need to read this passage more carefully.
And that's why we're here.
And verse 13, God says through Nathan, the Lord is taken away or sin.
You are not going to die.
But now you need to think about that.
Meditate on that a little bit.
And the Old Testament, when he says, when you hear the phrase, the Lord is taken away or
sin, that meaning is very, very clear.
That means forensically, legally, you are no longer responsible.
You are no longer held liable.
There is no justice nor retribution that'll be taken out on you for what you have done.
The Lord is literally taking that guilt, taking that sin and it's taken it away.
So it is no longer making you liable.
Nathan says, you are not going to die.
God has forgiven you.
You are not going to die because if you die, that would have been justice.
It was a capital crime, multiple capital crimes that David committed in that moment.
When he entered your eye, killed, when he got back to you, but pregnant.
Nathan says, first, you're not going to be punished.
The Lord is not holding you liable.
You are not going to die.
But it's also very clear.
This is the second thing.
When Nathan says in verse 13, you are not going to die.
Then he says in verse 14, but he says, you're forgiven.
You're not going to die.
But your son will die.
What does that mean?
There must be another reason for a son's death.
But at least it's not justice.
It's not punishment.
Well, if it's not, then why does he make him suffer so much?
You see, if David believed that his current suffering was a punishment for what he did,
he would never have been able to get off the ground.
He would have thrown himself off a cliff.
You see that?
That guilt would have been overbearing, overwhelming.
And he would never have been able to get off the ground.
The reason why, if you look at the Old Testament, the entire book of Joe, which is a book
in the Old Testament, very famous passage, very famous book, it's written to refute
Job's friends.
The whole book was written around the Council of Job's friends.
Job was a godly man, but God allows for tremendous suffering to happen to Job.
He allows it.
And Job's friends, their view is a common view of very world review, even though they
come as people of God.
They basically say their view is this.
If you live right, then God's going to bless you.
If you live a good life, then God is going to give you a good life.
And so if you have a bad life, then you must have done something wrong.
You must be in sin, and God is demonstrating his retribution or his justice.
This is punishment for you.
But what happens if you try to live right, and you're just crushed like Job.
You're going to say, why deserve it?
There's going to be a lot of, you're going to hate yourself, just going to be a lot of
self-pity or be.
You're going to say, I don't deserve this.
I've been trying to live right, and you're going to hate God or you're going to hate
somebody else.
You're going to blame somebody else for it.
Life is always going to be confusing when you come with that world view.
If you hold to that view, because either you're going to hate yourself or you're going
to hate God.
Because you're never going to be able to avoid the suffering.
It's going to happen.
You see that?
Some of us, I mean, we've been there.
As a pastor, after what 11 years now here at Metro, I think suffering is probably one of
the single greatest reasons for why people abandon God.
Forget about abandoning church.
It's one of the greatest reasons why people just kind of sift away from God.
And most people, we do a little bit of both.
We hate ourselves a little bit, and we hate God.
And it's subtle.
It's like very, very subtle.
We do, we kind of inch away from them.
And we're not going to just kind of drastically walk away, but we inch away from him
relationally before we inch away from him geographically.
Before we stop going to the church, we distance ourselves in a lot of different ways.
We're very, very, if you really think about that, what we do, and so we live very powerless
lies because we ultimately never got off the ground.
We're still metaphorically still on the ground.
I'm going to give you a phrase.
We're going to say a lot by faith.
Only by faith, can you believe what Nathan said to David?
When you're enduring, I mean, some of this right now, we're in it.
And I know it's hard to, when you're in that, it's dark.
And it's just really, forget about the stress and the pressure.
It's like you're swimming in a sea of just chaos and darkness.
And you just kind of let yourself go a little bit, right?
We're in it.
And only by faith, then, can you believe what Nathan actually said to David that you're
not being punished right now for what you did?
Well, then why do you go through this?
Well, the second thing that David learned when he was on the ground is a suffering, is
surgery, a heart surgery.
God isn't trying to hurt David.
God isn't trying to break David.
Well, I mean, it took away his child, right?
I mean, how can you say that the difference between a serial killer?
Then the difference between a serial killer and a doctor who's surgeon is what?
They're both holding knives.
They're both somewhat skilled.
Is that one is trying to hurt you and kill you.
The other is trying to save you.
God is trying to heal David through this, brokenness.
It's hard for us to kind of grasp that and the why of that.
Nathan says in verse 14, because by doing this, this adultery, this murder, literally Hebrew,
what he says is, and we read this in the text, because you are shown contempt for the Lord,
this Son will die.
You see, the word contempt.
It means to take something lightly, to complete this miss something.
It's actually the opposite of giving glory to something.
The word glorious, come both, content is the opposite word in a sense.
When you show glory, when you demonstrate glory, when you take glory to something,
you are sensing the reality of something, you're sensing God's reality, you're sensing
the weight of his beauty, the weight of his brain.
It's heavy, it's weighty in your life.
And it's so weighty, it actually shapes you, kind of contorts you, it shapes the way you live.
To treat God then less real, to dismiss that heavy presence, that weightiness of his beauty
and his holiness in his life is to show that utter contempt.
Now, doesn't mean it's because you didn't know.
Maybe you knew a lot about God, maybe you know a lot about God, maybe you've learned a lot.
Maybe you've went to school teaching you a lot about God, but that knowledge hasn't changed
to you.
It hasn't shaped you the way you live your current reality.
Maybe you even feel a little bit, you're moved once in a while, but it's not weighty enough
to change the way you live in those patterns that you live in your life.
You see that?
It hasn't shaped you in that way.
Malcolm Gladwell is one of my favorite authors.
He's in New York Times, bestselling author.
He wrote a book called Blink.
He was, I think, a second big book that he's written.
I'm just going to paraphrase one part.
He refers to this marriage counselor in the book who after observing a couple of him, that's
what he does for living.
He just counsels marriages, but after having so many counseling experiences and examples in
his life, he can just watch a couple in silence.
Their voices are muted.
He's got these brainwave things that are on them and it's kind of scrolling through it
and he can mount he's to monitor them.
He says, I can just watch them and after three minutes or it's like two or three minutes
or something like that, he can predict whether or not this marriage is going to make it.
What does he see?
What is he looking for?
He says, one of the things that he's looking for is whether or not the husband and the wife
are in an argument and the demonstrate content for each other.
He says, that's the death note.
When I see that, it's over.
Almost every couple that shows content and almost every marriage where there's content in
the marriage, it ends in failure.
Nathan here, he says to David, you have shown content for God.
You are relationally bound together by a covenant.
This love binding promise, this life binding promise and you dismissed it.
You've not seen the weightiness of it.
You've kind of walked away for you.
Abandon his love, you abandoned his honor, you abandoned his love for you, is delighting
you, his embrace for you and so you've distanced yourself.
You've divorced yourself from God.
What kind of man would take another man's wife and then take his life?
Either you don't believe in God or God's beauty and it brilliance and it's love and
it's law.
They're just concepts that never really entered into your soul and shaped your life.
So you dismissed God, you shall contend for God instead.
You've been captivated by power and your lusts and your wealth and your skills and your
manoeuvring.
You could have seen that shoe by taking that bath from a distance and walked away from
it.
Why can't any of us walk away from the things that we want?
Why can't you walk away from the things that you want?
Because we're all sleigh towards desires.
That's the Bible says.
Abraham in the Old Testament, first book of the Bible, Abraham in Genesis, he waited
for decades for a child, he finally gets that child, it's Isaac.
Through him, God's going to redeem the world.
But then God says, I want you to surrender that son.
I want you to offer that son as a sacrifice.
It may just rip them apart.
It tore him apart.
We've talked about this passage in our series.
It just completely tore him apart.
But he obeyed why?
Because God's brilliance, his wisdom, that calling of God, it was heavy in his life.
He didn't have to be coated into it.
He had to be coerced into it or could jolt into it because if he was, it's because he
was a slave.
But he wasn't he obeyed why?
Because that heavy brilliance of God was so witty for him.
He didn't become a slave.
Parents, do you know?
Parents, do you know that every modern scholar in council will tell you that when you
make your children the center of your life, then your work will revolve around that child,
your church will revolve around your experience of church.
And your church life will revolve around that child.
Everything that you do as you revolve around your children.
And it pleases you at first to please them.
But you must know because the weight of your own meaning and your own glory and your
own joy has taken over the glory of God.
You will press that weight then onto your children.
It's going to suffocate them under that weight because you were not as gracious as God.
You were not as wise as God.
And so you will suffocate them and crush them under the weight of your own expectations
and you will ruin your children because you are a slave, they'll become slaves.
Because you are a weak, they will become weak.
You see that?
Because you're a slave, you're going to make them a slave to all sorts of things.
It all begins with what?
A contempt and a dismissal of God.
God doesn't just get pushed to the periphery.
He just gets completely dismissed.
You see that?
Nacan says to David, you are forgiven but you need to be healed.
You've gone so far.
You have shown utter contempt for God.
You've pushed him completely away and you're like the spiraling down which is why you've
committed murder.
You need to see that with your own eyes and experience that to understand how far you've
gone.
And so this pain, the suffering.
Because you are a chosen king.
Yes, on one hand, you are forgiven.
I love you.
I've never left you but look at you.
You're loneliness and you're brokenness and that lack of kingliness, that character, that's
missing in your life, the cowardice and the deceit and the manipulation and the self-righteousness
that don't wrap in that.
You need to be healed because otherwise your life will continue to roll back more people
will die more people will suffer around you and even though you may not die if this kingdom
and this world is going to be redeemed through you, then you need to experience.
You need to come back.
You're getting almost a visual inner perspective of the pain and the picture of how dead
you are in your sin.
Because death is separation and it's painful.
Death is final and it's painful.
It's over.
So David, he falls to the ground and he's pleading and he's praying.
You've ever been there.
There are people in this room and they're saying, man, I've tried that already.
Pastor, I've tried that.
I've pleaded and I've prayed.
I've pleaded with God.
I've wrestled with God.
That's even if he exists.
It's like he doesn't exist.
Friends, that's what God is trying to heal David from.
David, God stopped being a reality in his life and he had to uproot the sin that is so deep
and has rooted itself in him.
That's what he was trying to heal him from.
This is why we say, well, I can't trust a God that allows this kind of stuff.
It's the same reason why David abandoned God in the first place.
This trust, contempt.
The moment you say that you say, I'm showing contempt.
I'm dismissing this.
We need to be healed of that.
God must have told David at some point.
You see it in this passage.
I need to take your son.
He's not going to suffer anymore.
He's going to be with me.
I'm taking him into eternity with me.
But it's going to feel like death for you.
It's going to feel like your heart is being ripped apart so I can give you a new heart.
You're going to heal.
You're going to be free again.
Did it work?
Yes, it worked.
Verse 18, the child dies.
Verse 19, David realizes that and he asks, is he dead?
He says, yes, it happened.
What happens?
Verse 20, he gets up.
The scholar say up until this point, David was using everyone.
That he was just an object.
Your eye was just a barrier.
Joe Ab was a tool.
David wasn't a servant anymore.
He was consumer.
A lot of us here were just consuming.
At any time, we don't get what we want.
Whether it's in the church or at work or at home, complain, complain, complain.
You're falling into that right now.
A lot of us are like that towards God.
Or like that towards the church.
But David, for David here, his life changes.
When he gets up, his servants are confused.
Verse 21, when the child was alive, you fastened your weapon.
Now, he's dead and you get up and you're ready to eat.
Verse 22, David says, well, when the child was alive, I thought maybe he needed to lure
a little bit of them live.
Maybe I suffered enough and I'm good now.
We do that.
Don't we?
I'm good.
I get it now.
I got it guys.
A lot of you, you've been through a lot and you're like, I'm good now.
I get it now.
I've learned a lot now.
Right?
Because we still want to tell and dictate to God on our terms when something should
star, when something should end.
Because we think we're still wiser.
Parents, you see your children, right?
What's that little thing?
That's electrical socket.
Don't put your fingers there.
What do they do?
No, no, no, I need to do this.
That's what they say.
They don't say, I want to do it.
Well, you know, like, why dad?
They say, no, no, no, it's wise for me to do this.
They're like, I must do this.
And it's like suffering for them when you try to tell them when you block it, when you
put those little things in there to prevent them from putting anything in the socket.
It's like the world is ended.
You know, that's us.
That's us.
Robert Alter.
Well, David says, first 23, now that he's dead, can I bring him back again?
Robert Alter is a famous biblical scholar.
Liberal scholar, I think I said this multiple times, but nobody like Robert Alter
when it comes to understanding of the ancient Hebrew.
So even all conservatives, we all read him.
He says that this is the first time in a long time where David is just helpless.
He's just broken and helpless.
Before he was addicted to power, now he's just completely vulnerable.
He's on the ground.
And this sets the pace for the rest of his life.
He's been torn down, but he's been freed.
His life has changed.
Before he was addicted to power, he was addicted to his desires.
Now he's just humble.
I'm going to say it like this.
One day, everyone is going to experience something so painful.
I'm going to throw you to the ground.
And there you're going to see the link between your suffering and God's wisdom and your
character.
And if all those three things come together, there will be joy in your life.
That joy will sustain.
The suffering is the crucible by which God builds wisdom and character and kinkliness
unto greatness.
God says, it pains me to do this.
You're going to understand, this is God.
It pains me to do this, but this is surgery because you have something that is life-threatening.
And most of the time, we are not going to know.
We are going to have no idea what God is trying to free us from.
It's not until months go by.
Maybe years go by.
Maybe decades when you look back and say, okay, now I see.
He was tearing away the thing that I wanted most apart from him.
People were going to try to tell me, maybe.
People were trying to, you know, and I just dismissed it.
That's made me anxious.
This thing has made me anxious.
It's made me depressed.
It's made me lonely and proud and sinful and dismissive.
Murderous, hate, right?
A adulterous, lustful, greedy.
He's breaking the things that were breaking me.
Because I was the way I was.
I was breaking things, I was breaking relationships.
But he was breaking the things that were breaking me.
So you read this called a worship at the start of worship, Psalm 39, an amazing prayer
because at the end, basically the Psalmist says, you know, get away from me.
So I can have some peace in my life.
Just get away from me.
So I can have some peace before I die.
And then the Psalm ends.
There's no peace.
There's no praise at the end.
That's why the Psalm is so good.
It's why God put it in the Bible.
You know why?
Because it tells us that God knows us.
He hears us when we are just raw and unfiltered and just desperate and on the ground and
riding all sorts of lies are coming into our hearts and we're kind of tempted to believe
it and we're just kind of talking to ourselves in our hearts and we're just desperate and
raw and in pain and on the ground.
I mean, of course, it's not all good stuff.
But to know that God hears this, to know that He understands.
I mean, why else would it be in the Bible?
And look at David, even though David isn't this terrible place spiritually, he doesn't
fake it anymore.
He says on the ground, his servants are like, oh my gosh, he's going to do something desperate.
He's a mess functionally physically, but directionally he gets it.
He now knows and never stops from there.
It's that really proud person that says, well, because I can't see a reason for my suffering,
there must be no reason.
It must not be true.
There must not be a good reason.
Terrible.
Because if you have a God that is powerful enough to stop the suffering and you may not
see any redeeming part of that situation right now, then you need to trust that God if
He is infinitely powerful, he's infinitely wise enough to have reasons for why He doesn't
answer your prayers because He has a God of love.
Do you trust that?
What does David do on the floor?
He knew that it wasn't punishment.
He knew that it was surgery and it's hard to become a wise person, a fuller person, a
deeper person, even a more joyful person.
I mean, you see it in Psalm 51.
You see that latter half of Psalm 51, seven or eight verses.
He says, I'm going to be a worshiper again.
I'm going to be joyful again.
He knows, but only if one, you're on the floor and you're crying out to God, too.
It's just really, really, really personal and three.
You're still clinging to God, no matter the outcome.
Because the primary outcome is you are back in the Lord again.
You are intimate with God again.
You pray and you pray that you have a wisdom that God has, but you may not know the answer
to what God is doing or why He's doing it.
You're just trusting.
You're just submissive.
This part is really important.
Verse 17 to 19.
His friends are trying to help him, but that help, it's not even effective until verse 20,
when that recovery, that surgery is complete.
When that recovery finally begins.
Really just people, we tend to be really stoic in suffering.
You don't want to show that you have need.
You don't want to show that you are weak.
It really just people.
You don't have problems showing that they're weak, but they mourn without hope.
They don't believe that there's any help.
What's the point of trying to put up pretense is there is no hope?
The gospel teaches us that God knows, he understands.
He wants to hear you.
He wants to see that raunus.
So you can mourn and you've got to be real, but you can mourn with hopefulness.
Because you can trust that God is going to work through this.
I don't know the outcome.
I don't even know why.
I may not know why.
But I do know that God works through it.
For David it's undies, but he's renewed.
He recovers.
How did he recover?
That's all the last point.
I know this is a little bit long, but I told myself, wrestling myself to just cut it short,
but we got to do this.
Some of us were still on the floor.
How did he get up?
David, when he gets up, he tells a little secret.
I mean, how are you able to trust God in a way that propels you to joy?
David must have hurt two assortances.
We need to hear those two assurances too.
What are they?
Two phrases.
Verse 22, he will not come to me, but I will go to him.
And then in verse 25, he sent work through the name of David, David named him Solomon.
God sends Nathan says, name of Jetta Daya.
We need to do the same.
In both cases, what do I mean by that?
First, he will not come to me, I will go to him.
Why is he able to say that, Nathan sure is David, you are parted.
That was the start.
He trusted God's love.
And so Psalm 51, that beautiful Psalm of repentance, he began with appealing to the unfailing
love of God.
He trusted and God's love.
He trusted his wisdom, he's saying, one day, even this pain is going to get swallowed
up by a greater joy that's going to come.
I mean, right now it sounds horrible, it feels awful, but unlike any other religion,
the God of the Bible doesn't ask us to do anything that he hasn't done himself.
God of the Bible says to Abraham, he says, David, redemption is not going to go forward
unless you're a son dies.
Your son must die, offer him up.
Abraham offers his son, but then his son is spared.
God says, and Abraham trusted him, it was brutal, three days of just brutal journey up
a mountain to sacrifice his son, but he spared God says to David, you're son must die,
and he does.
So he's separated from his father.
He looked at the agony of David.
But David never even got to know his son.
And God essentially says, he's with me.
Right, verse 22, what he's really saying is David's going to go to see him.
He must have been assured that he will see him again.
So when Jesus Christ died on the cross to pay the penalty for our sins, there was not
just a partial temporary separation from the Father.
David temporarily separated from his son.
Jesus Christ was completely separated from the Father.
He was completely separated.
And remember, Jesus is in the Father, the Father is in Jesus.
There was complete union.
So when he died, this ultimate agony, this forensic separation that took place.
My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?
This is the ultimate agony.
This is the ultimate desperation of the soul.
So much that Jesus on the cross says, what?
I'm thirsty.
You think he was thirsty just for water?
He was craving the one thing that was sustaining his life and his soul up until that's
point.
Before he goes to the cross, I guess, so many.
What does he say?
My soul is overwhelmed with sorrow to the point of death.
In other words, Jesus Christ was on the ground.
He was wrestling on the ground.
Stayed on the ground.
Death, death, that's what he was doing.
He was wrestling.
He was beaten up.
And he's wrestling with God and he's praying, take this wrath away from me.
But then he says, but not my will, yours be done.
He'll be paid.
He was submissive.
He trusted.
Even as God legally had separated from Him, he trusted God.
To the point of death, there was no content.
The weight of the heavy brilliance of God was still there.
Even as God had friends, it was abandoned his son and rejected him on the cross.
So when Jesus fell, he fell to his death and he fell to the utter depths.
And he was so far on the ground that they buried Him and he stayed there.
That is finality, death, that's the separation.
Jesus says, it is finished.
The death is paid.
It's over.
When he got up, he rose to glory.
Jesus Christ, I'm this the son.
There was, he experienced endless separation.
The agony of separation on the cross.
But think about this.
Look at David.
He's suffering.
How much more would God?
David is the father looking at his son being separated from him.
How much more would God the father?
Suffer, watching his son, you would say we would take his place and yet he turned his face
from him.
God himself suffering complete separation and agony too.
Scholars with poetically say that the Trinity was torn apart, it didn't really, it wasn't
really, it was forensically.
But it was torn apart.
God he was in our pain, does God understand our suffering?
Only the God of the Bible understands.
He not only understands what it's like to suffer but he suffered.
No one ever lost a child like God lost his own son and to the degree that you see, to the
degree that you believe that God sent his own son to die for you, that God himself
places his own life to suffer for you.
That's the assurance that God is in your suffering and that through your suffering, through
your brokenness when Jesus suffered and die people said nothing good can come from this.
Maybe yes, what you're saying in your life.
But that's what God does.
He works through suffering.
He works through brokenness.
He works through your sin.
He works through the uglyest to bring about a greater beauty, a greater joy, a greater
victory.
People believe that he did that through Jesus and through somebody like David, he can
do that for you.
What's the assurance?
Jesus received all the punishment.
That's why David was forgiven.
That's why we can be forgiven here.
That's why we can be reconciled to God and intimate with God because Jesus Christ received
all the punishment that we deserve.
So we can have the reconciliation and intimacy and love and embrace that Jesus deserved.
We receive the blessing and the love and the pardon for sin.
Otherwise, God is not God is not just sin would win if you would just let us go.
Even if he lets one of your smallest sins go, sin wins.
You see that?
So why God is love and God is just so much that He's willing to sacrifice His own
son, He's the son that He loved for you or God is not loving and He's not just.
Jesus Christ is willing and Jesus Christ is basically died for no reason.
You see that?
And yet He was willing to suffer.
Look at Jesus.
He was willing to die.
He was glad for the joy set before Him.
That was a prayer for the city today.
For the joy set before Him.
He was glad to die for you.
Do believe this.
I mean, more than it just moving, you do get it.
Because if you do, then God becomes the source of your joy.
You will unhook from something else as a source of your joy.
God becomes a source of your joy.
And when suffering comes, it drives you into a deeper joy the way, the way roots extend
deeper into the depth during drought.
We're in fire or in the desert to find an everlasting well of a loving and just God who
saves into eternity.
It makes us more like Jesus.
Sheaths our character.
She reality is that look, we're all sinners.
We're all sufferers.
But can you suffer with voice?
Jesus didn't suffer to take away all of our suffering or any suffering in our life.
But so that when we suffer, it's not a punishment.
It's not to ruin you.
But it will grow you, shape you, change you into a greater intimacy with God that only
Jesus enjoyed himself.
It's going to make you more like Jesus.
It's going to shape you, that weightiness of his beauty and brilliance will shape you to
make you more like his child.
And so if you look at Jesus, the ultimate suffering on the cross, why did he stay there?
Because he says, if you die, then it's like I'm dead.
Actually, he said, so that you wouldn't die.
I'll die.
That's what's going to get you off the ground.
There's one more thing.
There were three things that he learned.
One more thing that gets him up and allows him to recover.
Verse 24.
He says, then David comforted his wife, Bathsheba, and they slept together.
And Bathsheba gave birth to a son, they named him Solomon.
The Lord loved him and because the Lord loved him, he said, we're through Nathan the prophet
to name him Jedi, which means Jedi means the beloved of God.
He delighted and Jedi.
This is amazing.
David, it's several wives.
You have to understand this.
He had several children.
But God gives David and Bathsheba this kind of prostitute-ish person, disgraced woman.
He gives them both another child, another son.
You need to know the Solomon, the word Solomon is derived from the word Sha'ul-Om.
Right?
It sounds the same.
It's a holistic piece, David is saying, on the name of Solomon, because it's my way of
saying to God, I'm at peace.
I'm at peace.
But God says, no, I want you to name him Jedi.
The Lord loves the Lord the lights in this child of all the marriages.
This is the marriage you chose.
Of all the children, this is the one that suffered the one that was ugly and disgraced
to save the world.
That means, you know what that means?
David screwed up.
Yes, he was an adulterer.
He was a murder.
But the result is this.
Through this brokeness, consolation Christ was born out of Solomon.
You get that?
Through that line.
So not only was David chosen and not only was he forgiven, he was redeemed.
Bathsheba was the scarlet letter woman.
David is the adulterer and the murder of friends, who's going to be a friend to that?
And your Jesus Christ, the savior of the world, came from that line.
You know what that means?
It doesn't matter where you've been.
It doesn't matter who you are.
It doesn't matter what you've done.
It doesn't matter where you came from.
And Jesus Christ, you are Jedi, because you come from Jesus.
You are intimately tied to him.
The Lord the lights in you, the Lord loves you.
And if Jesus Christ, his own son suffered, not because he did anything wrong, but because
of God's amazing wisdom and plan, because of his embrace of Jesus and yet the gospel,
he's going to bring a plan of redemption to fruition through all that brokeness.
That truth is going to bring you to light and love when things are confusing and dark.
Look, man, I've been through like three major traumas in my life.
I've been through the death of a father that I hardly knew as a result.
And a lot of suffering came from that.
I've been through the betrayal of the closest friends.
And it just tore me apart.
Some of you have been through that, right?
And I've been through the loss of children.
But some of you are saying, man, I've been through it.
And I've been in sin for a while.
But you're here.
I'm here, right?
We're here.
You were sin that life brought you here.
You're not the lights in his people.
And he will use even your sin, yes, even that brokeness, any weakness to make you a delight
for his kingdom.
Can that truth, can you anchor into that if you do it, it'll give you poise through any circumstance.
So far for the length of this, we have to do this today.
Let's pray together.